ITRS: Term Rewriting and Abstract Reduction Systems Theories 
     For PVS 6.0

Last updated:  16 March 2019.

Mauricio Ayala Rincon
Universidade de Brasilia
Brazil
ayala@unb.br

Andre Luiz Galdino
Universidade de Brasilia &
Campus Catalao/Universidade Federal de Goias
Brazil
galdino@catalao.ufg.br

Contains a unification theory developed by both authors together with 
                   Andreia Borges Avelar
                   Universidade de Brasilia
                   Brazil
                   avelarab@gmail.com

Contains an orthogonality theory developed by two first authors together with
                   Ana Cristina Rocha Oliveira Valverde
                   Universidade de Brasilia
                   Brazil
                   anacrismarie@gmail.com

Contains a dependency pairs theory developed by the first author and
	   	   Ariane Alves Almeida
		   Universidade de Brasilia
		   Brazil
		   arianealvesalmeida@gmail.com


1. Package Files
----------------

a.  README                   Summary of distribution (this file)


b.  The folder "trs-pvs60"  which contains the ARS and TRS theories
-------------------------------------------------------------------

b.1. ARS theories
-----------------

relations_closure.pvs        This theory contains the definitions of closure 
                             of a relation and some properties.

ars_terminology.pvs          This theory contains some terminology of ARS such 
                             as unique normal form, reducible and sucessor, and 
                             notions of confluence and commutation.

results_confluence.pvs       This theory contains some results about confluence
                             such as strong confluent implies semi-confluent.

results_commutation.pvs      This theory contains some results about commutation
                             such as Commutation lemma.

results_normal_form.pvs      This theory contains some results involving normal
                             form such as a relation is normalizing and
                             confluent iff every element has a unique 
                             normal form.

noetherian.pvs               This theory contains the definition of convergent
                             reduction and noetherian relation and the
                             Noetherian induction lemma.

newman_yokouchi.pvs          This theory contains the specification of Newman's
                             lemma and Yokouchi's lemma

modulo_equivalence.pvs       This theory contains specifications about Reduction 
                             modulo equivalence such as local confluence, confluence
                             and Church-Rosser property modulo equivalence, and some 
                             properties such as the general Newman's lemma.

confluence_commute.pvs       This theory contains some results and exercises from 
                             the book TeReSe.



b.2. TRS theories
-----------------

arity.pvs                    This theory contains the definition of the function
                             arity.

term.pvs                     This theory contain the definition of an abstract term 
                             structure.

variables_term.pvs           This theory contain the definition of a variable set V.

term_adt.pvs                 This theory is automatically generated by the 
                             specification of a term (term.pvs) and contains 
                             extensionality axioms, eta axiom, induction scheme and 
                             a well-foundedness axiom.

positions.pvs                This theory contains the definitons of the set of 
                             positions of a term, parallel positions among other, 
                             and some properties of positions.

subterm.pvs                  This theory contains the notions of subterm of a term, 
                             and variables occurring in a term, and some properties.

replacement.pvs              This theory contains the definition of replacing the 
                             subterm at some position by a term, and some properties.

compatibility.pvs            This theory contains the definitions of closed under 
                             substitutions and operations, and compatible with 
                             operations and contexts, and some properties such as 
                             compatible with operations iff compatible with contexts.

substitution.pvs             This theory contains the definitions of substitution, 
                             domain and range of a substitution, restriction and 
                             extension of a substitution, composition of two 
                             substitutions, and a most general unifier, 
                             and some properties.

extending_rename.pvs         This theory contain the definition that extend a rename
                             from a given domain to the same type as identity.

rewrite_rules.pvs            This theory contains the definitions of a rewrite rule
                             and a set (type) of rewrite rules.

reduction.pvs                This theory contains the definition of reduction 
                             relations (at some position and restricted to non-root position) 
                             and some properties such as closed under 
                             substitutions and compatible with operations.

replace_positions.pvs        This theory contains the notion of substitutes all
                             subterms at a sequence of parallel positions of a term
                             by another term, and some properties.
                               
unification.pvs              This theory is composed of a set of specifications and 
                             formalization of definitions and lemmas which allowed us
                             to formalize the lemma which guarantee the existence of
                             a most general unifier on set first-order terms.

robinsonunification.pvs      This theory contains the formalization of a greedy
                             first-order unification algorithm a la Robinson.
                               
robinsonunificationEF.pvs    This theory contains the formalization of a more
                             efficient first-order unification algorithm a la
                             Robinson.

critical_pairs_aux.pvs       This theory contains definitions and properties needful
                             to prove the Critical Pairs Theorem.

critical_pairs.pvs           This theory contains the definition of a Critical Pairs
                             and the Critical Pairs Theorem.

orthogonality_basis.pvs      This theory contains specification of notions related
                             to orthogonal rewriting systems, parallel rewriting, the
                             formalization of confluence of left and right linear
                             non-ambiguous TRSs and the Parallel Moves Lemma.

orthogonality_sets.pvs       This theory contains the proof of the Theorem of
                             confluence of orthogonal TRSs. The inductive proof of
                             the main theorem uses the Parallel Moves Lemma. In this
                             version, sequences (of rules, variables, terms,
                             substitutions) involved in one-step parallel rewritings
                             and parallel forks, are translated into sets in order to 
                             avoid direct treatment of these sequences, using instead 
                             simpler set properties.

orthogonality.pvs            This theory also contains the proof of the Theorem of
                             confluence of orthogonal TRSs. The inductive proof of
                             the main theorem uses the Parallel Moves Lemma. Some
                             operators over sequences of positions are used and,
                             differently from the theory orthogonality_sets, no
                             advantage of properties over sets is exploited.

predicate_fseq2set.pvs       This theory states several properties of finite
                             sequences over a non interpreted type T converted in
                             sets through the PVS prelude conversions "seq2set" and
                             "set2seq". 

IUnion_extra.pvs             This theory contains additional properties about
                             disjoint sets operations and finite union of a finite
                             family of finite sets.

top.pvs                      This theory imports the theories trs,
                             robinsonunificationEF, orthogonality and
                             orthogonality_sets.

seq_extras.pvs               This theory was developed by the two first authors but
                             it was realloced to the 'structures' folder of NASA
                             Langley PVS Libraries in the current version. Until the
                             version 5.0, the theory was named as 
                             finite_sequences_extras.pvs and it was in 'TRS' folder. 
                             It contains definitions and properties about finite
                             sequences.

seq_recursion_theorem	     This theory contains a version of the recursion theorem 
                             for set theory, allowing the construction of functions 
                             over the naturals to elements of a non-empty set/predicate 
                             for which there exists a function over elements of such
                             set/predicate. This result is used to build infinite
                             chains of Dependency Pairs from a minimal non-terminating
                             term.  Despite its application it is a general set theoretical
                             result.

restricted_reduction         This theory contains a definition allowing to restrict a given 
                             relation to the descendants of a given element. It also contains
                             results for Noetherianity of such relations. Also used in the 
                             Dependency Pairs Theory.  

innermost_reduction          This theory contains the definition of innermost reduction 
                             relations (at some position and restricted to non-root position) 
                             and some properties such as closed under 
                             substitutions and compatible with operations.

dependency_pairs             This theory contains the specification of the basic elements  
                             used by the Dependency Pairs termination criterion. It also  
                             contains functions and predicates allowing the formalization  
                             of correction of the Dependency Pairs termination criterion.

dp_termination               This theory contains the formalization of the correction of the 
                             Dependency Pairs termination criterion (for arbitrary reductions).

inn_dp_termination           This theory contains the formalization of the correction of the 
                             Innermost Dependency Pairs termination criterion.


2. REQUIREMENTS 
---------------

a. Make sure PVS 6.0 has been installed. 
   Available at: http://pvs.csl.sri.com/

b. trs theory requires NASA Langley PVS Libraries which are available at: 
   http://shemesh.larc.nasa.gov/fm/ftp/larc/PVS-library/
   These libraries should be included.

------------------------
